v2.4.4 09feb01 MJS	The baud-rate mapping capability introduced in 2.4.3
			had broken the -b## flag. Fixed.

			Adjusted spooler interface scripts to document
			and allow setting of baud-rate mapping when needed.

			Fixed up some comments in slpro.c that were a bit
			out of date (ie: did not accurately describe the
			newer supported models).

			Tidied up the HOWTOs.

v2.4.3 30jan01 MJS	NOTE: only released to one user, for platform testing
			and for proof-of-concept regarding baud-rate mapping.

			Use of 57600 baud facilities in slpro.c was
			not *completely* conditional, preventing compilation
			on Irix 5.3 and AIX 4.1. Fixed: 57600 baud facility
			is only enabled on platforms where it is available.

			Fixed bug in "printer-reset" code in slpro.c. This
			bug could only be triggered in extremely unusual
			error-situations, and was never reported from the
			field.

			Added support for those serial-port drivers that can
			provide 57600 baud facilities *only* by pretending
			that request for a lower speed is really one for 57600
			baud, eg: when a program uses termios B50, the O/S port
			driver sets 57600 baud.

			The two initial baud-rate mapping schemes are:

				IBM RS/6000, AIX 4.x, 7318 8-port concentrator
				or 128-port adaptor, port initialised with
				"/usr/lbin/tty/stty-cxma fastbaud tty#".
				Thanks to Tren Blackburn for testing this.

				Solaris/SPARC 2.1-2.4, Magma 4SP, 8SP or 16SP
				SBus serial-port card. The magma driver for
				Solaris 2.5 and later supports 57600 baud
				using the normal mechanism.

			Expect more mapping-schemes for other old
			operating-systems/device-drivers.

			Fixed a termios/protocol race-condition in slplus.c.
			The bug only shows up on platforms that have a broken
			tcdrain() function, when running on *fast* machines,
			eg: Linux on 600+ MHz PCs, thus was previously hidden.
			The fix was designed and contributed by Werner Panocha,
			who claimed not to be a UNIX programmer... which is
			remarkable considering the subtle termios nature of
			the fix!

			Added HOWTOs describing how to use other fonts and
			how to print barcode labels.


v2.4.2 19sep00 MJS	Promoted conditional alpha-test code for 240
			to "production" status.

			Minor corrections to manpage.

			Rationalised internal full-printer-model names,
			as used by the "output to bitmap" debugging
			device-driver.


v2.4.1 25aug00 MJS	Suppress termios BRKINT semantics during autodetection
			in each driver, to prevent the probes generating
			spurious interrupt signals on a very few hardware
			configurations.

			This made autodetection of printer-type unreliable
			on those very few systems: had to specify printer-type
			explicitly.

			Sun Ultra-10 and SPARCstation-20 exibit this behaviour,
			but the Sun SPARCclassic, SPARCstation-5, Ultra-1/170E,
			and all the PCs I can find do not.

			It sure is not a UART, driver or cabling issue
			(identical UARTs, drivers and cables can behave
			differently). Presume it must be a
			difference in pull-up/pull-down resistors external
			to the UART... except that there is a timing issue
			(problem disappears when run under truss with all
			truss-output disabled). Strange.

			Verified that there were no memory-leaks or
			memory-access-errors, just in case.

			In any case, the fix applied is generic - apppropriate
			for all situations and systems.

v2.4 17aug00 MJS	Added support for new printer models:

				SLP-100
				SLP-100N
				SLP-200
				SLP-200N

			Added alpha-testing support for SLP-240.

			Note that these new printers default to 57600 baud,
			which means they can *only* be used on systems that
			provide the common B57600 and CRTSCTS extensions to
			POSIX.1 termios.
			
			The Solaris 2.x and Linux 2.x.x POSIX.1 APIs have
			the B57600 and CRTSCTS extensions, but I am not sure
			about others (HP-UX, AIX, etc).

			So we emit an error message if the user explicitly
			selects one of those models on systems where B57600
			or CRTSCTS is not available. In auto-probing mode
			such printers will simply not be detected.

			Note that these newer printers also require that
			the *system* serial-port hardware properly supports
			57600 baud... users of pre-Ultra Sun sytems
			will have to check their on-board serial-ports
			for the famous Zilog 8530 and Solaris "zs" driver bug,
			as documented in the manpage.

			Fixed typo's in some comments in slpro.c

v2.3.2 05apr00 MJS	Fixed crash if output-port not specified - now (again)
			correctly uses standard-output in that case.

			Added time-limited "wait_for_idle()" call to the
			"set_baud()" funtions in the printer-drivers, to
			improve reliability of auto-probing. Heavily
			tested autoprobing on reference platforms.

			Changed the style of structure type definitions in
			slap.h, to make debugging with gdb easier -
			seperate "struct" and "typedef" declarartions.

			Fixed invisible file-descriptor and signal-mask leaks
			in opentty() - the leaks will never arise in slap,
			but needed fixing for other serial-port programs that
			"borrow" port.c.

v2.3.1 30jan00 MJS	Fixed incorrect type of return expression at
			slpro.c:1174 - some compilers complained.

v2.3 23jan00 MJS	Fixed bug where glyphs with maximal extents did
			not print on the first line of the label. This bug
			only effected (some) third-party barcode fonts.
			It still amazes me that several users have generated
			their own fonts using the included font utilities,
			as well as reconfiguring an X font server to allow
			them to do it, both steps being undocumented...

			Portrait versus landscape output now selectable from
			the command-line. This required some generalisation
			of the renderer.

			Fixed definition of "35mm slide" label size/orientation,
			but am unable to test it myself - cannot source this
			type of label :(.

			Code review exposed an unlikely but potential
			timeout-whilst-waiting-for-ready bug in the SLP Plus
			family driver. Fixed.

			Restructured the (internal) device-driver interface,
			for the above fixes and to allow "hybrid" device-
			drivers, such as a driver that outputs an MBM-format
			bitmap file (great for debugging the renderer).

			The above also involved separating the driver-name
			table from the top-level session-handling code:
			new module glue.c defines the driver-name mapping
			internally, and exports a lookup function for
			other modules to use.

			Removed the somewhat ad-hoc debugging "dump" code
			from the renderer - now can use the MBM-driver 
			instead.

			Couple of declarations added to prevent compiler
			warnings.

			Expanded instructions for using slap with the LPRng
			spooler, and tidied up the instructions for the BSD
			spooler. Thanks to gregbo@delanet.com for these.

			Manpage had omitted "Shipping Labels" from the
			list of valid label sizes. Fixed.

v2.2.6	10sep99 MJS	More generalised configure scripts. Now
			handles newer Linuxes (based on 1.2.x kernels)
			without manual intervention.

			Configure scripts now also produce explicit
			instructions when they detect that manual
			intervention may be required.

			The -version flag now also displays the
			platform-specific configured options used to build
			the executable. This is mainly to help spot
			broken platforms in future. Manpage updated as per.

v2.2.5	10aug99 MJS	Documentation change only: "lpd" spooler-setup guide
			changed to specify "input-filter" rather than
			an "output-filter" to avoid spooler bugs and
			discrepancies between different versions of "lpd".

v2.2.4	27apr99 MJS	Fixed SVR4-style printer-interface script to
			reference $MAXBAUD and $MEDIA on the slap command-line.
			Also fixed a couple of minor typos in said script.

			Added SVR3-style printer-interface script.

			Made configuration scripts more flexible to cater
			for slightly wierd platforms (eg: Irix C compiler).

			Also noticed that POSIX.1 specifies that the
			symbolic constant PATH_MAX is optional, so changed
			to use dynamic method - pathconf().
			Thanks, scerutti@dtsi.com.

v2.2.3	30jan99 MJS	Under Linux, was getting SIGSEGV if standard-output
			was redirected to the serial-port, due to an erroneous
			assumption in the "Pro" driver that malloc()-ed heap
			was initialised to zero. Fixed - thus removing the
			need to **explicitly** specify the output port in the
			"lpd" filter script.
			Fixed font-path in the sample print-filter scripts.

v2.2.2	27jan99 MJS	adjusted Configure script to forcibly set
			the makefile variable NODRAIN on Linux platforms,
			because newer releases of GCC fail to define
			the symbol __linux__, which was used previously
			to detect broken implementation of tcdrain().
			Thanks, jerryn@ici.net.

v2.2.1	24jan99 MJS	adjusted manpage: changed references to Seiko
			Instruments' products to use their "official" names,
			and added SII registered trademark notice.

			Also disabled DEBUG logic in render.c that was
			accidentally enabled in the 2.2 release. Whoops.

v2.2	10jul98	MJS	major restructuring of driver interface to allow easy
			"plug-in" of drivers for new printer models.

			added support for SmartLabel-120 and SmartLabel-220
			(surprise, surprise!). Found the bugs in the SLP-120
			firmware and worked round them!

			added "auto-detect" of printer type (new driver
			code, and new session-framework code).

			more label sizes:	small, strip, slide,
						cass, leitz, large.

			tested on additional platforms:

				Sun SPARCclassic		Solaris 2.2
					(with all the ldterm/zs patches!)
				Axil HWS-210 (SS2 clone)	Solaris 2.5
				Sun Enterprise-6000		Solaris 2.5.1
				Sun Enterprise-150		Solaris 2.5
				Sun Ultra-2/1200		Solaris 2.5.1
				Sun Ultra-1/170			Solaris 2.5
				SPARCstation-5			Solaris 2.6

			That's enough - only significantly different test
			platforms listed from now on...

			fixed bug in the sample "lp" printer-interface script,
			to gain more accurate reporting of status by "lpstat".

			enhanced supporting font-import tools to handle glyphs
			that (intentionally) exceed their font-metrics.
			Also fixed a couple of minor bugs in the tools.
			Distributed font files unchanged.

...	  jan98	MJS	tested with network-based "shared virtual serial-port"
			subsystem (Central Data EtherLite port server) on
			Solaris, to verify that high-latency serial links
			did not break anything. Works fine.


v2.1	30jun97	MJS	improved recovery from signals - properly closes
			down communication with printer. This allowed
			users to cancel a print-job without leaving the
			printer in a wierd state.

			made driver-interface "session"-based and reentrant
			for future use (eg: program that needs two drivers
			active simultaneously, such as an X window driver
			and a printer driver).

			optimised the use of the printers' communication
			protocols for faster printing.

			adjusted rendering-engine to properly handle glyphs
			that extend outside their bounding-box.

v2.0	15may97	MJS	initial version - starts at 2.0 to distinguish
			from earlier (1994) program, "slpd".

			wrote tools to convert Type 1 PostScript
			outline fonts into bitmap fonts. Used to
			generate the distributed bitmap fonts.

			source APIs:	ANSI C		(ANSI X3.159-1989)
					POSIX.1		(IEEE Std 1003.1-1988)
					MJS Portable C Library

			printers:	SmartLabel, SmartLabel-Plus,
					SmartLabel-EZ30, SmartLabel-Pro.

			label sizes:	std, euro, disk, ship.

			tested platforms:

				Sun SPARCclassic	Solaris 2.4
					(via built-in ports and an
					8-port Magma/8sp SBus card)
				Sun SPARCstation-5	Solaris 2.4
				Sun SPARCserver-10	Solaris 2.4
				Sun Ultra-1/140		Solaris 2.5.1
				386 PC (8250 UART)	Slackware Linux 3.0
				486 PC (16450 UART)	RedHat Linux 4.0
				486 PC (16550 UART)	RedHat Linux 4.0

			wrote sample printer-interface scripts for integration
			with the UNIX SVR4 "lp" subsystem, and the BSD
			"lpd" spooler.

